---
navigation_title: ECK managed credentials
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-users-and-roles.html
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-rotate-credentials.html
applies_to:
  deployment:
    eck:
products:
  - id: cloud-kubernetes
---

# {{eck}} managed credentials

When deploying an {{stack}} application, the operator generates a set of credentials essential for the operation of that application. For example, these generated credentials include the default `elastic` user for {{es}} and the security token for APM Server.

To list all auto-generated credentials in a namespace, run the following command:

```sh
kubectl get secret -l eck.k8s.elastic.co/credentials=true
```

## Default elastic user [k8s-default-elastic-user]

When the {{es}} resource is created, a default user named `elastic` is created automatically, and is assigned the `superuser` role.

Its password can be retrieved in a Kubernetes secret, whose name is based on the {{es}} resource name: `<elasticsearch-name>-es-elastic-user`.

For example, the password of the `elastic` user for an {{es}} cluster named `quickstart` can be retrieved with:

```sh
kubectl get secret quickstart-es-elastic-user -o go-template='{{.data.elastic | base64decode}}'
```

### Disabling the default `elastic` user [k8s_disabling_the_default_elastic_user]

If your prefer to manage all users via SSO, for example using [SAML Authentication](../../../deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/saml.md) or OpenID Connect, you can disable the default `elastic` superuser by setting the `auth.disableElasticUser` field in the {{es}} resource to `true`:

```yaml subs=true
apiVersion: elasticsearch.k8s.elastic.co/v1
kind: Elasticsearch
metadata:
  name: elasticsearch-sample
spec:
  version: {{version.stack}}
  auth:
    disableElasticUser: true
  nodeSets:
  - name: default
    count: 1
```

## Rotate auto-generated credentials [k8s-rotate-credentials]

You can force the auto-generated credentials to be regenerated with new values by deleting the appropriate Secret. For example, to change the password for the `elastic` user from the [quickstart example](/deploy-manage/deploy/cloud-on-k8s/elasticsearch-deployment-quickstart.md), use the following command:

```sh
kubectl delete secret quickstart-es-elastic-user
```

::::{warning}
If you are using the `elastic` user credentials in your own applications, they will fail to connect to {{es}} and {{kib}} after you run this command. It is not recommended to use `elastic` user credentials for production use cases. Always [create your own users with restricted roles](../../../deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/native.md) to access {{es}}.
::::

To regenerate all auto-generated credentials in a namespace, run the following command:

```sh
kubectl delete secret -l eck.k8s.elastic.co/credentials=true
```

::::{warning}
This command regenerates auto-generated credentials of **all** {{stack}} applications in the namespace.
::::

## Creating custom users

{{eck}} provides functionality to facilitate custom user creation through various authentication realms. You can create users using the native realm, file realm, or external authentication methods.

### File realm

ECK supports creating users through Kubernetes secrets referenced in the {{es}} resource. These secrets can contain either file realm content or standard authentication credentials with a username and password.

For more information, refer to [File-based user authentication > Add users](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/file-based.md#add-users), and check the ECK examples.

### Native realm

You can create custom users in the {{es}} native realm using {{es}} user management APIs or {{kib}}.

Refer to [Native user authentication](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/native.md) for more details.

### External authentication realms

You can also configure external authentication realms such as LDAP, OpenID Connect, or SAML in your ECK deployments by providing the appropriate {{es}} or {{kib}} configuration settings and any required [certificates or configuration files](/deploy-manage/deploy/cloud-on-k8s/custom-configuration-files-plugins.md).

For more information, refer to [External authentication](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/external-authentication.md).

## Creating custom roles

ECK facilitates file-based role management through Kubernetes secrets containing the roles specification. Alternatively, you can use the Role management API or the Role management UI in {{kib}}.

Refer to [Managing custom roles](/deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/defining-roles.md#managing-custom-roles) for details and ECK based examples.

## Controlling the length of ECK-generated passwords

```{applies_to}
  eck: ga 3.2
```

With an enterprise license users can control the password length of the file-based passwords generated by {{eck}}.

:::{note}
In {{eck}} 3.1 and earlier all file-based passwords are 24 characters long.
:::

### Controlling the length of passwords in Helm installations

If you installed {{eck}} through the Helm chart commands listed in [](../../deploy/cloud-on-k8s/install-using-helm-chart.md), you can set `config.policies.passwords.length` to control the length of generated file-based passwords.

For example:
```shell
helm upgrade -i eck-operator -n elastic-system --set=config.policies.passwords.length=64
```

This will cause any new file-based passwords that are generated to be a length of 64.

::: {note}
This will not cause existing passwords to be changed. To change existing password refer to [Rotating credentials](k8s-rotate-credentials)
:::

### Using the operator manifests

If you installed ECK through using the manifests using the commands listed in [](../../deploy/cloud-on-k8s/install-using-yaml-manifest-quickstart.md), a manual update to the `ConfigMap` is required to control password length.

1. Set the `password-length` in the `ConfigMap`.

```yaml
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: elastic-operator
  namespace: elastic-system
data:
  eck.yaml: |-
    log-verbosity: 0
    metrics-port: 0
    metrics-secure: false
    container-registry: docker.elastic.co
    max-concurrent-reconciles: 3
    ca-cert-validity: 8760h
    ca-cert-rotate-before: 24h
    cert-validity: 8760h
    cert-rotate-before: 24h
    disable-config-watch: false
    exposed-node-labels: [topology.kubernetes.io/.*,failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/.*]
    set-default-security-context: auto-detect
    kube-client-timeout: 60s
    elasticsearch-client-timeout: 180s
    disable-telemetry: false
    distribution-channel: all-in-one
    validate-storage-class: true
    enable-webhook: false
    operator-namespace: elastic-system
    enable-leader-election: true
    elasticsearch-observation-interval: 10s
    ubi-only: false
    password-length: 64
EOF
```

2. Ensure that the ECK operator reloads it's configuration

```shell
kubectl logs -n elastic-system elastic-operator-0 --since=1m
```

This will cause any new file-based passwords that are generated to be a length of 64.

::: {note}
This will not cause existing passwords to be changed. To change existing password refer to [Rotating credentials](k8s-rotate-credentials)
:::
