---
applies_to:
  deployment:
    eck: all
navigation_title: ECK
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-security.html
---

# Manage TLS certificates on ECK

All {{stack}} resources deployed by the ECK operator are secured by default. The operator sets up basic authentication and TLS to encrypt network traffic to, from, and within your {{es}} cluster and {{kib}} instances.

Refer to [Communication channels](./secure-cluster-communications.md#communication-channels) for an overview about the different endpoints and traffic flows to secure.

## {{es}} transport layer configuration

{{es}} transport security and TLS certificates are automatically configured by the operator, but you can still [customize its service and CA certificates](/deploy-manage/security/k8s-transport-settings.md).

## {{es}} and {{kib}} HTTP configuration

HTTP TLS is automatically enabled for {{es}} and {{kib}} using self-signed certificates, with [several options available for customization](./k8s-https-settings.md), including custom certificates and domain names.

{{kib}} instances are automatically configured to connect securely to {{es}}, without requiring manual setup.

## Certificates lifecycle

ECK provides flexible options for managing SSL certificates in your deployments, including automatic certificate generation and rotation, integration with external tools like `cert-manager`, or using your own custom certificates. Custom HTTP certificates require manual management.

ECK automatically rotates any certificates and CAs that were generated by the operator and are under its management.

For certificate management configuration options, refer to [ECK configuration flags](cloud-on-k8s://reference/eck-configuration-flags.md).