---
applies_to:
  stack: ga all
  serverless:
    security: ga all
products:
  - id: security
  - id: cloud-serverless
description: Investigation guide for the "Microsoft Sentinel External Alerts" prebuilt detection rule.
---

# Microsoft Sentinel External Alerts

 Triage and analysis

## Investigating Microsoft Sentinel External Alerts

Microsoft Sentinel is a cloud-native SIEM tool that aggregates security data for threat detection and response. The rule identifies each alert logged in Sentinel, enabling analysts to swiftly investigate potential threats.

### Possible investigation steps

- Examine the timeline of events leading up to the alert to identify any unusual or suspicious activities that may have occurred.
- Cross-reference the alert with other related alerts or logs in Microsoft Sentinel to determine if this is part of a larger pattern or isolated incident.
- Investigate the source and context of the alert to identify any patterns or anomalies that could indicate manipulation or false positives.
- Consult the Microsoft Sentinel investigation guide and resources tagged in the alert for specific guidance on handling similar threats.

### False positive analysis

- Alerts triggered by routine administrative tasks can be false positives. Identify these tasks and create exceptions to prevent unnecessary alerts.
- Frequent alerts from known safe IP addresses or domains may not indicate a threat. Whitelist these sources to reduce noise.
- Alerts generated by automated scripts or scheduled tasks that are part of regular operations can be excluded by setting up filters for these specific activities.
- Non-threatening alerts from internal network scans or vulnerability assessments should be reviewed and excluded if they are part of regular security practices.
- Alerts from test environments or sandboxed systems can be false positives. Exclude these environments from alert generation to focus on genuine threats.

### Response and remediation

- Contain the threat by isolating affected systems from the network to prevent further spread or data exfiltration.
- Review and terminate any suspicious processes or sessions identified in the alert to halt ongoing malicious activities.
- Conduct a thorough analysis of the alert details to identify any compromised accounts or credentials and reset passwords immediately.
- Apply relevant security patches or updates to affected systems to close any vulnerabilities exploited by the adversary.
- Restore affected systems from clean backups to ensure the integrity and security of the environment.
- Monitor network traffic and system logs closely for any signs of recurring or related suspicious activities.
- Escalate the incident to the security operations center (SOC) or incident response team for further investigation and to determine if additional resources are needed.

